Q: What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

A: when a repository is initialized, a hidden .git folder is created within the directory
you made the initialization in. this folder will then contain the log of all the git
snapshots of your project. by default, none of the files currently within the directory
that you initialize the git repository in will be committed to the repository. 
initializing the repository creates a blank slate for you to begin your project with.
you can specify the files you want to track by adding them to the repository and start
adding log messages to help track the development of the project.


Q: How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

A: the repository contains all of the snapshots of your project that youve committed. files that are
in your working directory and have been edited can be part of any commit that you make to the
repository. however, not every file in the working directory may need to be edited before a commit
is made. all files being tracked by the repository will be added to the commit, though. for 
any given commit, some files in the working directory may or may not be added to the repository for
that commit, if they are not being tracked at the time. the staging area doesnt really "contain" files.
it is a temporary batters box where the files that are going to be committed are placed before 
the actual commit is made. before making a commit, it is a good idea to see which files youve edited,
which files the repository is tracking, and make sure that all the files that need to be committed are
being tracked, as well as possibly removing any files that it isnt necessary to continue tracking. 
the staging area is a useful tool for this. it allows you to maintain a high-magnification look at
the detail of your repository and how commits will affect it.


Q: How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

A: you can use the "git diff --staged" command to compare the state of the files in the staging 
area to those in the most recent commit. if there arent very many changes in the file in the 
staging area, or if the changes dont result in anything meaningful, then you can tell that you 
arent in a logical place to make a commit. 


Q: What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

A: branches are useful when you need to work on something specific, but want to keep your current fully-functional 
version still functional. you may have thought of a new feature to add to a game or a new level that you 
want to test out. it would be a good idea to branch the project at this point, so that you could experiment
with the new feature free from worry of breaking something that used to work, and then having to checkout an 
earlier commit to continue the project, thereby losing any work you did on the experimental new feature. 
the same situation could arise when adding the new level to the game. or, you could be working on a seating 
arrangement for a wedding reception. halfway through, a bunch of new RSVPs come in, or you decide that youd 
rather put all of your friends at the main table instead of your in-laws. before making changes to the "perfect" 
seating chart, youd branch the project in case your fiancee didnt think your new plan was very well thought out. 
this way, you could revert to the original arrangement without having to remember where everyone was sitting.


Q: How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

A: the diagrams are a great way to visualize branch structure, because all at once, you can (reasonably) see 
how many branches there are, how many commits are in each branch, and whether or not there are any 
unreachable commits. it might be a lot more difficult (or at least, youd have to get a lot more comfortable 
"seeing the matrix") if you were only looking at the git log.


Q: What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

A: by merging two branches together, all of the commits made to each branch become part of the same branch 
(the branch that is currently checked out). the commits all become part of the same log, sorted by timestamp. 
after the initial merge, the new head has two parents: the most recent commits from both branches. so, in the 
diagram, both branches come out to a single point that represents the new head (which, in turn, is pointing 
back to two previous commits). if you then went ahead and deleted the branch you just merged, its label 
would disappear, but all of the commits that were under that label would still be part of the new log that 
contains all the commits from both branches.


Q: What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

A: git is obviously not foolproof. it cant guess at what any two (or more) people intend for any part of the project 
they make changes to. when git attempts to determine where changes have been made, it cant always make the "correct"
call, which in this case, is what the project developers intend with their changes, not necessarily just to include 
what was added and to delete what was removed. so it might make sense from this viewpoint that making a merge manually
would always be the best way to go, since the developers would always have to resolve gits conflicts anyway. but, 
its more likely that git will stumble over minor things, especially when the project is broken down into logical
chunks, and the developers are making regular and logical commits. when there are enough commits and each one is 
logically different from one another, there will likely be less conflicts, and the developers as a whole can trust
that git wont always be stumbling over conflicts it cant understand correctly.

